welcome everyone to
this week's ipld sync meeting
it's monday
february the 22nd 2021
and as every week we go briefly over the
stuff that we've done and work on next
week and then
discuss any agenda items we might have
um i start with myself
i currently work
on getting the js
ipfs implementation
using the js multi formats stuff
and kind of like as a first step what i
do is i try to get
the unix fs using the
new deck protocol buffers codec that rod
was doing um and so unix if it is like
this part was is unexpectedly easy
and but the problem is now integrating
into ipfs
because js ipfs is of course using
internally ipld
and of course the whole ipld thing that
we currently have is using the
the old cid the old codex and so on
so yeah this just doesn't work well
together
so i'm currently so the idea is what i
try to do and then i will see if it's a
good idea is that
also internally instead of using this
kind of like ipld
ripper that we had it's using the the
repo or block service it's amount of
detail directly
and it's just using the codex directly
encodes them decodes them and then
puts them directly into the store so
there's
not really like there's something in
between anymore and
this way i should be able to use the
back product buffers for the doing s
parts
directly and everything will be fine but
they will still be like the whole deck
api will still use the old stuff and so
on and yeah yeah we'll see how this
turns out
but the first step i want to get during
sfs working because like this is really
like kind of like the
core of what ipfs at least for me is
doing
and it would be really a great step
forward to having those using the
new libraries that we want to also
people
people to use in their javascript
ecosystem
um yeah and this is what i'm continuing
to do um
over the next few weeks um
next is danielle
cool so something that has finally
started to shape up
is the i don't want to call it version
two of encoding json but it's
it is kind of that it's an experiment to
write a new implementation of json for
go
i've been working on this with a couple
of other people for a few months
and we did want to open source it
eventually um
so we're not fully there yet because we
don't want to draw too much attention
but
there is a public snapshot now on github
and it's importable
as a co-module so if anybody wants to
play with it right now is it's fully
it's a full token encoder and decoder
so that means you can do fairly low
level things
um which i think are going to be
interesting mainly for things like dac
json and go
but also for example quick go has
a logger in json that has to be really
really fast
but right now it generates a ton of code
with a an external library and i think
that could be like 50 lines
with this new token encoder
and it's going to keep improving so you
can follow that repo if you want it's
just an fyi for now
and the other thing that i'm working on
is essentially our first project
in the new team is using ipld prime
in ipfs so the design part that i'm
picking up
is the node modifications in the api in
go merkle dag
which is what a lot of the ipfs packages
use so
i've linked to a hackmd where we're
collecting all the modules and packages
that
use these apis and interact with them
and
i'll probably have to sync with eric on
this because i think he's been designing
similar apis for modifying
and navigating nodes i think they're
called the transform apis might be wrong
there
uh but i want to talk to him because um
you know
essentially i should decide do i want to
reuse his work there
if it's close to being ready or do i
want to do something simpler
and go merkle jack directly or something
like that and that's it for me
thanks next on my list is rule
sure so i'm also part of this group with
daniel that's looking at
applying ipld and the ipld prime into
ipfs and we're still
i think coming to terms with what we're
chewing off uh in that project
there's a lot of cruft whereas we look
at
each new uh get repository we're like oh
that's still using gx
there's there's a lot that could be done
that's low hanging in that one um
so there's some design work as um dan
mentioned
that a lot of this is figuring out how
to map what's currently called a dag
service that combines a few different
things including
the concept of how you fetch data
served generically but also how you
add and remove data to your local data
store
um which is somewhat of a separate
interface because it's not necessarily
pulling from the network in the same way
that fetching
will both pull potentially from the
network or potentially from your local
data store
and then there's also a whole bunch of
mutation and modification to dags
and data and so figuring out what the
actual interfaces we want at the same
time that we're moving from
the ipld format view of the world where
a ipld format
node is at a block level as opposed to a
ipld
prime node which is more granular and is
a
individual node in the way that we think
of it today
means that we then get to propagate
stuff
to a bunch of stuff one of the unblocked
ones that i'm hoping to get through
this week um is there's a bunch of
additional codecs
that ipfs is able to at least read
from and think about in terms of data
including git and
tar um and so
we should figure out how to take that
same data and read it into ipld prime
nodes
so that we can still have the network as
we move to an ipld primary
world so i expect to pack up at least
sort of the same level of functionality
of being able to from
i get on data score a tar on disk end up
with ipld private node views of that
same data
um so that we're unblocked as we start
moving to ipl prime interfaces
um and we will i think also end up
posting a bunch of
links in uh github issues to help
people follow along on this work but the
end
view ideally is that additional ipld
codecs
can make their way into ipfs much more
easily
which hopefully makes our lives happier
that's it for me
thanks next one is eric
oh boy um a lot of things happened in
the last week
and i didn't keep a diary on the day by
day so i forgot most of them
but a couple of things that are
interesting to this group i did start
looking at the
new json stuff that mv dan linked
earlier and it's cool surprise surprise
so i'm going to be really excited if we
can use that to make a better dag json
in the future
something i've also been wondering about
and am still wondering about
is if we'll be able to use the token
concept from
that library to do other broader work
like use it as the foundation for dex
seaboard
token handling um and i think that's
probably a lot less likely
at first glance i'm gonna keep thinking
about that because the more
i mean obviously the more that i can be
used the happier that i am
um but it's just meant to do json things
so it wouldn't be surprising if it's not
super reusable
so it's possible that in the future i'll
end up with like some codec utils
stuff for dexyborne.json shared and then
there'll be like this cutover where that
starts using the token from
the json libraries
we'll see um all that stuff that i'm
also just looking at not actually
writing
code on yet because that's a whole
endeavor
and it's not published yet um something
i'd like to ask for input from other
folks here on is we've talked about
cross language fixtures before and we've
got some of them in some of our projects
in some various formats and i've started
taking notes
on that um with a couple of examples of
places where we're doing it already and
thoughts about how that's working out
and some options for things i should
think
that we should look at going forward man
i'm figuring how to speak english
um so there's a pr with a bit of an
exploration report going
and i would love comments on that i've
only got a handful of formats identified
as possibly useful there so far
and so it's just things that i have
heard of
and there might be more so
yeah take a look at that that's all
thanks um i can read that peter doesn't
have an update
this week
and next one is carlson
who also doesn't really have an update
but if you yeah
feel free to say something about your
[Music]
research uh
yeah not much this week our team just
came off a big
research sprint so there's not a lot of
code progress of any kind in particular
there's some interesting
research findings which i can talk about
but it's a little tangential to the
discussion here so i'll
leave that um some work
so i met last week with pvh from incan
switch and we had a chat about ipld
um because that crew crew has been kind
of
curious about has been ipld curious for
a while i think i convinced them to give
it a try
um so uh expect some questions from that
spectrum of the internet soon
and the cool earth thing on that front
is that we've started to move forward
with some proposals around some of the
hash consistent sorted tree work that
michael told me about but um i think
maybe uh
alex or somebody who was
someone wrote that up anyway so that's
looking very promising for some thread
syncing stuff that we're doing um
so that's cool
if you have documents from your research
that you think would be reasonable for
us to
know about and like make discoverable
send us some links and i will slam those
into the part of
our repo that's called the exploration
reports and just link to them from there
cool okay where our team is actually
starting to move
we're trying to do more of the research
stuff in the open uh
like many people so we've started to
move stuff to github discussions
um and that's looking pretty good
actually um
as a way to get stuff out so i could i
could potentially link some of that once
it's
discussionable yep yeah my dream is just
to have a big old link farm
i i give up trying to police people on
formats there's no joy in that and very
little productivity but link collecting
yeah yeah cool okay nice
anyway that's it from me thanks
um does anyone else have any updates
before we go to the
ad gen items also feel free to edit
agenda items
cool then
[Music]
there is a question from
will about the distribution between go
coding deck pb and go ipod prime
proto i guess that one is for eric
what's the difference the distinction
that is actually not for me i almost
could have asked that question myself
okay so does anyone else know
okay so i guess we'll read through okay
so maybe this is between
and hannah and we should
figure out why we have what looks like
two codecs that are both
dag pb for ipld prime
that both have been updated in the last
month
cool then we will hear about it
next week i guess cool
um yeah so yeah so i have also like a
question to the
yeah to you folks about the april d ipfs
stuff
um so the first one is about um as you
talked about manipulation what's the
plan with
the ipf fpfs object api
because like that's something that we
also have in js ipfs
and it's kind of like it falls kind of
into the ipld world
but we always tell people don't use it
like just don't use the object api
because it will be deprecated hopefully
eventually
and so i just wonder like what the plan
is there because
i would totally in favor of like
either deprecating it or just like
having for the use cases it has
something better um and as i
clearly move js ibfs to the new stuff it
also like
kind of like does it make sense to move
this old thing or if you also think
about
should we move this old thing it might
make sense to discuss
what are we gonna do with this yeah so
i talked with a dean earlier today and
he was open on the go ipfs side at least
to changing that interface
uh and said it felt like a weird
awkward thing given where we are with
ips prime and that having uh
you know maybe that merges with dag or
maybe that
we deprecate that in favor of jag
michael has something to say it seems
like
so we're we're entering into like
a real kind of status quo bias here like
i think that we should actually frame
two questions and put them in github
issues and see if we can find any
sufficient response
um one for the objects api and one for
the dag
api and literally ask for anyone
to defend it existing like can
it does anyone think that it is a good
idea to still have these and if it is
not better to just use the block api in
the other apis like is there
is there a real defense of
of these things because we keep like
patterning around like maybe we
deprecate it maybe not but like i
haven't heard
anyone in years really try to defend
them um
so like let's let's frame it that way
and then it
i think that by the end of it it'll be
really clear what we need to do
maybe i'm wrong maybe somebody has a
really good reason that they need the
dag api or something right but
if nobody if nobody can come up with one
like i think that the
the it's a lot easier to close except
um yes for object for having two of them
that sounds totally right and
even from um
a command line like why are you
interacting with structured data
on this inherently weirdly sort of
serialized command line thing that also
feels like this weird disjoint
you know you could totally see it would
sure be nice over either the http api or
over your um
internal uh like if i'm embedding as a
library
i probably want like my ipld dag to be
able to go in and out
right and that is in some sense like
this interface
that's not what these things are yeah
that's a great idea for an interface
like we should build something like that
that's not what the
guy is the dang api is like
like a really bad jsony api for like
uh for creating block data with
different codecs like
it's just it you can always design a
better experience by just
having the codec and the client and
using the block api then you can using
the deck api
um and they're basically kind of
one-to-one like there's no like
additional
important feature essentially that the
dag api gets um
there's no special treatment or
improvement there um
so like yeah what you described is it
sounds like a useful thing
um it's not uh what we have
yeah so i so so we should think about
where these move to but like that seems
in some sense like the natural thing
like there's this very well used
and trodden block thing that a lot of
people using but if we've got ipld prime
we might also expose
it like it sure seems useful to expose
the actual fpld nodes
right that's that's the thing that is
like the natural thing to work with
um but we need to figure out how we end
up there yeah so i've also talked
with a ghost salah about it on the
javascript set of things that he also
said basically yeah so
he would want to yeah either move things
into the block api having a separate api
but also so we had the same discussion
about does the deck api make sense does
the
object api make sense and just yeah but
anyway so
it's good to hear that basically both
sides like the goal side and the
transcript side says we need more
discussions and
figure something out and i think the
idea from michael is good because i
i also have the impression because like
if someone had questions about it or
i always told people don't use the data
api don't use the objects api
and i guess like many of us did this in
the past few years so
hopefully people just don't use it but i
also can't tell like it could totally be
that people use those apis i don't know
um cool um yes
so uh who like uh how do we
uh move forward like who is the owner of
those like opening those issues or get
the discussion started
i gave myself an action item to file
issues okay
yep i i think final decision is probably
on stephen
frankly um yeah yeah
yeah but still like my goal was that
someone
clearly owns it to make this move
forward and so this will be well
it's great thanks um
and please yeah also then cc me so i can
then
also ping the other people from the js
side and yeah
get this moving okay cool uh that's
great
um okay
the other question is kind of related
and is the
current so as you were talking about
more codecs and
i guess there's currently also an
ethereum codec for
ipld i guess in go
is there or is it only a javascript
thing
to traverse ethereum blockchain data
i'm not aware of what we might have lots
of code floating around
somewhere on the internet
um i think if it's
currently linked in go ipfs then
is it guaranteed to have been maintained
even up until the present date
is very questionable and so
i would say it's going to remain however
maintained it has been which is to say
i really don't know yeah so it's so
yeah so so there's actually been some
developments there like
this is a bit influx um i think that the
the vulcanize i think was the vulcanized
folks like they just did
a whole big document on ethereum and
ipld
um which i believe had recommendations
for for slight modifications to the way
that we did it
or or perhaps it just like normalized to
something that
rod had done before but i think that we
have like better
documentation at least on that now and i
think there is a proposal for them to do
some grant work around this which
may end up including either new versions
of
those which may end up including new
versions of those um in fact one of
their
one of the things they brought up that
they need is an ipl the prime
version of a bunch of these codecs um
and so i think that we may actually be
funding a grant for them to do that but
i'm i'm not
100 of where that landed um because
there's a few different grants that we
have with them and i don't know like
what the staging is
yeah so the background for this question
was there is
a javascript codec for ethereum
which is insanely outdated and so i'm
not even sure it works so it was
basically written before even i joined
protocol labs
and it's has like i'm the official
maintainer but
i know almost nothing about ethereum so
it was kind of like just like
you see keep it working whatever it did
but i don't know even what it did
so and therefore therefore so i would
certainly not move
so i don't want to create a new codec
for the new js multi-format stuff so i
was basically just wondering
if we care for example about like future
parrot feature parity between
go in javascript and so on about those
things that
so in my opinion if someone wants to use
ethereum with js ipfs
they just should start from scratch like
that's just
the honest answer because you can't just
build on top of the
stuff that we currently have um and so i
would rather deprecate it and or remove
it from js ipfs
and then yeah i was just wondering what
the goal side is doing or like what we
have there and
yeah yeah i think that's basically the
same story and go right now
we have libraries i don't think i see a
codec that we are officially supporting
to upgrade to prime so we're not
planning to do any
ethereum kodak work as part of this
project i guess yeah okay then
so then for me the action item will be
that i talk to the
javascript side of uh subset of ipfs and
talk about like
what is up and if you really do the
update to js multi-formats like
do we take the chance to say okay we
don't maintain those codes anymore or
yeah stuff like this yeah given that
it's not
not necessarily even going to work in
prime pretty soon
like i think that we can probably take
it off your plate and not include it in
this upgrade
um but rod i don't know how
in the loop you are gonna stay in your
new role with the vulcanized
people and and the pm's over there that
are doing that um
but we should at least get word to them
that
the javascript side of this also needs
some love um
and potentially you know maybe there's
another grant that vulcanize wants to do
if they have some js engineers
yeah i don't think that's at all in
there in their path
to what they need but i guess if they're
keen for grant money then sure
yeah and i mean just just like making
sure that the
pms over there on the ecosystem side
know that there's a hole here
on the javascript side that um they can
at least be on the lookout for people
that might be able to fill it given time
something that's already probably a
little bit of good news from what the
vulcanized people are proposing and
working on
is that they've started writing nice
schemas for the way that they're
transforming this data
and so if we do in the future look
forward to having
somebody take on javascript fresh
implementations of ethereum stuff
then that'll probably be a huge help in
making sure that
the implementations are actually aligned
all right um yeah so those were my
questions
um or my agent items
is there anything else
i don't see anything on the agenda
any other comments or
things or do we for example want
carson to talk a bit about the the
research
in case you would be open to or i don't
know
or do we just close the meeting okay i
have
a question and don't laugh at me when i
ask this um
but i was talking about hash
authenticate data structures
uh to someone in healthcare and they're
like wrap the question what about a
collision
between two data item and items how do
you deal with that
and i've always kind of answered i just
trust the math nerds on this but
um that doesn't quite fly so well
so i'm curious if you guys have a more
structured answer or
or what about that
yeah so um i mean if you do the math on
the collisions
um you can tell them sort of what the
probability is
um in practice like a sufficient
hash function if you see a collision it
means that someone is attacking
the algorithm like like like that's
that's what that means
um it means that like it's been
compromised
and they're going after your data like
like literally um
you just you won't really see given the
probability you won't see natural
collisions with a sufficient hash
function
um that's really the answer uh if
if you can if you're gonna see the if
you were to see these just sort of
randomly all the time um then things
like blockchains wouldn't
actually function right like it actually
has to be
insanely difficult to generate these
collisions
yeah and and more practically if we ever
have a collision we crash
like there's panics and there's logs and
everything stops
until someone goes in and figures out
what happened and
changes the hash function so that that
doesn't happen anymore
hold on so you're saying so ipfs may
crash but ipld would not because it
doesn't know
that kind of knowledge no no so so
this is like again like assume that this
didn't happen naturally that it happened
because there's an attack
there's going to be ways to put bits in
that still look like valid data so it's
not going to crash when it's under
attack
the only time that it would crash is if
it was like expecting data to look a
particular way
and then it didn't because there was
like a natural collision
which again is like you know you're
you're
more likely to be hit by lightning
while being hit by a boss um like
can i can i put in terms that your hopes
will understand
uh basically tell them that uh every
single bitcoin wallet
is secured by the very same stuff and
the fact that there is no
theft of bitcoin like left and right
means that this stuff actually works
because there are actually people out
there
trying to guess you know caches to
actual wallets and they're not very
successful so
that's your you know actual uh yeah
risk scenario so
i'm actually i'm not quite following
your logic there peter
i think the let me put a little bit of a
healthcare twist on so if you have
i think the concern is is that you know
healthcare data
has certain regulations around it being
correct and so
if there was a collision um
potentially data could be lost and so i
think that's their main
kind of concern and i'm not sure how
because i mean
theoretically i could have two medical
images each which are different but
create the same cash
theoretically now practically speaking i
agree with you guys that won't happen
but i but i think when you talk about a
super risk adverse person
just i have to kind of address that in
some ways so
uh do they miss understand what you're
saying peter or what do you think what
what my example is that there are people
out there actively
looking for collisions with an immense
payout and they're not successful
and you and your scenario is oh i'm just
going to randomly
have a collision without one looking for
it so
that's basically my my argument it's
it's the same like uh when uh when
when they were starting the large uh
lhc uh they were asking the physicists
like oh can't like explode and they were
like well
theoretically it can like turn into a
black hole right it's basically the same
level of stuff
if that's true then i can use that as an
argument
i mean i mean cosmic ray might set some
red flags but uh
i would say that like the consistency
guarantees that they're used to getting
from writing this to hard drives those
are much more likely to like
there's those hard drives are much more
likely to corrupt that data
in fact like we know that there is like
a definitive like corruption rate um of
these hard drives
like it is just yeah it is it's more
likely that that would corrupt than
there would ever be a collision um it's
more likely that you would have
simultaneous corruption in multiple
mirrors
than it is at the same time than it is
that you would have uh
like a hash function yeah i guess
every sla has a bunch of nines on it
right so it's kind of like
if you are trusting a storage system
with a certain number nines
and the chance of a hash collision has
a lot more nines behind it than you're
worrying
you're worried about the wrong thing
yeah yeah yeah
just look up the probability of just
look up the probability of a collision
in the hash function and then convert
that to
nines and tell them it's like you know
what something like
409 or something right like like you can
you can give it to them in those terms
if you want right
okay that's what i okay that's helpful i
think that's the way i have to think
about
it is the probability there's lots of
probabilities of errors and this one is
just
here's how it relates to other ones that
you're worrying about um
what i the way i thought quick i i
thought about quickly on my feed i
basically said oh
we'll just actually generate a hash
using two different hash functions the
probability of both of those
colliding for the same piece of data is
uh
like impossible so but i don't know i
don't want to do that but that's what i
answered quickly
anyway okay thanks for the feedback it's
this is one of those problems where
probability becomes hard to visualize
and it's like the it's like the
chessboard thing of
you know there's more there's more
possible chess moves than you can make
than
i don't know atoms in the universe or
whatever whatever the stat is something
ridiculous but it's this thing where
you've got this chess board in front of
you and there's this probability
statement about how
you you can't statistically produce all
of the
uh the possible moves on this small
chess board
in a reasonable set of outcomes like in
a
in a measurable set of of solutions and
and that's really hard to imagine
but that's the kind of communicating you
need to do here is
look this is it's seen on the face of it
it sounds ridiculous
but the the probabil the probability
underlying all this stuff
is is so extreme that
um it's just you know unlikely to happen
in your lifetime that kind of thing
and and if it does happen then it's then
it's very likely and a legitimate attack
like something against sha1
thanks thanks
okay m
[Music]
anything else
no cool um
then i closed the meeting
and so thanks everyone for attending and
see you all next week again
goodbye everyone